docs: Fusion Snapshots incremental dumps and GCP support (#929)
seqeralabs/docs: fusion_docs/guide/snapshots/gcp.md

---
title: Google Cloud Batch
description: "Fusion Snapshots configuration and best practices for Google Cloud Batch"
date: "2024-11-29"
tags: [fusion, fusion snapshots, storage, compute, snapshot, gcp, google, batch]
---

Fusion Snapshots enable checkpoint/restore functionality for Nextflow processes running on Google Cloud Batch preemptible instances. When a preemption occurs, Google Batch provides up to 30 seconds before instance termination.

:::warning Short and variable reclamation window
30 seconds before instance termination is not guaranteed. Careful instance selection and conservative memory planning are critical for successful checkpoints.
:::

## Seqera Platform compute environment requirements

Fusion Snapshots require the following Seqera Platform compute environment configuration:

- **Provider**: Google Batch
- **Work directory**: GCS bucket in the same region as compute resources

> - **Fusion Snapshots (beta)**: Enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fusion**: Enabled
- **Wave**: Enabled
- **Fusion Snapshots (beta)**: Enabled
```
Good point! It doesn't impact flow or readability, so I see no harm in adding it.

- **Provisioning model**: Spot

:::tip Configuration
Fusion Snapshots work with sensible defaults (5 automatic retry attempts). For configuration options, see [Advanced configuration](./configuration.md).
:::

## Incremental snapshots

> [Incremental snapshots](./index.md#incremental-snapshots) are enabled by default on x86_64 instances and capture only changed memory pages between checkpoints. This is particularly beneficial for Google Batch's shorter reclamation window. Use x86_64 instances to enable incremental snapshots.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to be clear here ARM machine types are not supported due to kernel restrictions on that chip type?

---
title: Google Cloud Batch
description: "Fusion Snapshots configuration and best practices for Google Cloud Batch"
date: "2024-11-29"
tags: [fusion, fusion snapshots, storage, compute, snapshot, gcp, google, batch]
---

Fusion Snapshots enable checkpoint/restore functionality for Nextflow processes running on Google Cloud Batch preemptible instances. When a preemption occurs, Google Batch provides up to 30 seconds before instance termination.

> 

Reviewer: I've rearranged the sentence to hopefully make it clearer, but I think the point here is that Fusion Snapshots is not currently available for Seqera Enterprise.

It's framed in a positive way (what is available) rather than negative (what isn't available).

---
title: Fusion Snapshots for Google Batch
description: "Fusion Snapshots configuration and best practices for Google Batch"

> date: "21 Nov 2024"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: "2024-11-21
```

tags: [fusion, storage, compute, snapshot, gcp, google, batch]
---

> Fusion Snapshots enable checkpoint/restore functionality for Nextflow processes running on Google Batch preemptible instances. When a preemption occurs, the task is checkpointed and restored on a new instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fusion Snapshots enable checkpoint/restore functionality for Nextflow processes running on Google Batch preemptible instances. When a preemption occurs, Fusion Snapshots checkpoint the task and restore it on a new instance.
```
Active voice

:::warning Short and variable reclamation window

> Google Batch provides **up to 30 seconds** before instance termination (not guaranteed - could be less), significantly shorter than AWS Batch's guaranteed 120 seconds. Careful instance selection and conservative memory planning are critical for successful checkpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Batch provides up to 30 seconds before instance termination. 30 seconds before instance termination is not guaranteed. Careful instance selection and conservative memory planning are critical for successful checkpoints.
```
I'm not sure if contrast with AWS here adds anything for a Google Batch user.

:::

## Requirements

### Seqera Platform compute environment

- **Provider**: Google Batch
- **Work directory**: GCS bucket in the same region as compute resources

> - **Enable Fusion Snapshots (beta)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fusion Snapshots (beta)**: Enabled
```

- **Provisioning model**: Spot

:::tip Configuration
Fusion Snapshots work with sensible defaults (5 automatic retry attempts). For advanced configuration options like changing retry behavior or TCP handling, see the [Configuration Guide](configuration.md).
:::

## Incremental snapshots

Incremental snapshots are enabled by default on X86_64 instances, capturing only changed memory pages between checkpoints. This is particularly beneficial for Google Batch's shorter reclamation window.

### Key guidelines

- Use **x86_64** instances (incremental snapshots enabled by default)

### Resource limits

It's possible for a single job to request more resources than are available on a single instance. This can be configured using the `process.resourceLimits` directive in your Nextflow configuration.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
